# Controlling How Tests Are Run

Just as cargo run compiles your code and then runs the resulting binary, cargo test compiles your code in test mode and 
runs the resulting test binary. The default behavior of the binary produced by cargo test is to run all the tests in 
parallel and capture output generated during test runs, preventing the output from being displayed and making it easier 
to read the output related to the test results. You can, however, specify command line options to change this default a
behavior.

Some command line options go to cargo test, and some go to the resulting test binary. To separate these two types of 
arguments, you list the arguments that go to cargo test followed by the separator -- and then the ones that go to the 
test binary. Running cargo test --help displays the options you can use with cargo test, and running `cargo test -- --help` displays the options you can use after the separator.
Running Tests in Parallel or Consecutively

When you run multiple tests, by default they run in parallel using threads, meaning they finish running faster and you get feedback quicker. Because the tests are running at the same time, you must make sure your tests don’t depend on each other or on any shared state, including a shared environment, such as the current working directory or environment variables.

For example, say each of your tests runs some code that creates a file on disk named test-output.txt and writes some data to that file. Then each test reads the data in that file and asserts that the file contains a particular value, which is different in each test. Because the tests run at the same time, one test might overwrite the file in the time between another test writing and reading the file. The second test will then fail, not because the code is incorrect but because the tests have interfered with each other while running in parallel. One solution is to make sure each test writes to a different file; another solution is to run the tests one at a time.

If you don’t want to run the tests in parallel or if you want more fine-grained control over the number of threads used, you can send the --test-threads flag and the number of threads you want to use to the test binary. Take a look at the following example: