# Test Organization

As mentioned at the start of the chapter, testing is a complex discipline, and different people use different 
terminology and organization. The Rust community thinks about tests in terms of two main categories: unit tests and 
integration tests. Unit tests are small and more focused, testing one module in isolation at a time, and can test 
private interfaces. Integration tests are entirely external to your library and use your code in the same way any other 
external code would, using only the public interface and potentially exercising multiple modules per test.

Writing both kinds of tests is important to ensure that the pieces of your library are doing what you expect them to, 
separately and together.

## Unit Tests

The purpose of unit tests is to test each unit of code in isolation from the rest of the code to quickly pinpoint where 
code is and isn’t working as expected. You’ll put unit tests in the src directory in each file with the code that 
they’re testing. The convention is to create a module named tests in each file to contain the test functions and to 
annotate the module with `cfg(test)`.

## The Tests Module and #[cfg(test)]

The `#[cfg(test)]` annotation on the tests module tells Rust to compile and run the test code only when you run cargo 
test, not when you run cargo build. This saves compile time when you only want to build the library and saves space in 
the resulting compiled artifact because the tests are not included. You’ll see that because integration tests go in a 
different directory, they don’t need the `#[cfg(test)]` annotation. However, because unit tests go in the same files as 
the code, you’ll use `#[cfg(test)]` to specify that they shouldn’t be included in the compiled result.

Recall that when we generated the new adder project in the first section of this chapter, Cargo generated this code for 
us:

```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    #[test]
    fn it_works() {
        let result = 2 + 2;
        assert_eq!(result, 4);
    }
}
```

This code is the automatically generated test module. The attribute cfg stands for configuration and tells Rust that the 
following item should only be included given a certain configuration option. In this case, the configuration option is 
test, which is provided by Rust for compiling and running tests. By using the cfg attribute, Cargo compiles our test 
code only if we actively run the tests with cargo test. This includes any helper functions that might be within this 
module, in addition to the functions annotated with `#[test]`.

## Testing Private Functions

There’s debate within the testing community about whether or not private functions should be tested directly, and other 
languages make it difficult or impossible to test private functions. Regardless of which testing ideology you adhere to, 
Rust’s privacy rules do allow you to test private functions. Consider the code in Listing 11-12 with the private 
function internal_adder.

```rust
pub fn add_two(a: i32) -> i32 {
    internal_adder(a, 2)
}

fn internal_adder(a: i32, b: i32) -> i32 {
    a + b
}

#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn internal() {
        assert_eq!(4, internal_adder(2, 2));
    }
}
```

Note that the internal_adder function is not marked as pub. Tests are just Rust code, and the tests module is just 
another module. As we discussed in the “Paths for Referring to an Item in the Module Tree” section, items in child 
modules can use the items in their ancestor modules. In this test, we bring all of the test module’s parent’s items into 
scope with use super::*, and then the test can call internal_adder. If you don’t think private functions should be 
tested, there’s nothing in Rust that will compel you to do so.

## Integration Tests

In Rust, integration tests are entirely external to your library. They use your library in the same way any other code 
would, which means they can only call functions that are part of your library’s public API. Their purpose is to test 
whether many parts of your library work together correctly. Units of code that work correctly on their own could have 
problems when integrated, so test coverage of the integrated code is important as well. To create integration tests, you 
first need a tests directory.

### The tests Directory

We create a tests directory at the top level of our project directory, next to src. Cargo knows to look for integration 
test files in this directory. We can then make as many test files as we want, and Cargo will compile each of the files 
as an individual crate.

Let’s create an integration test. With the code in Listing 11-12 still in the src/lib.rs file, make a tests directory, 
and create a new file named tests/integration_test.rs. Your directory structure should look like this:

```
adder
├── Cargo.lock
├── Cargo.toml
├── src
│   └── lib.rs
└── tests
    └── integration_test.rs
```

Enter the code in Listing 11-13 into the tests/integration_test.rs file:

```rust
use adder;

#[test]
fn it_adds_two() {
    assert_eq!(4, adder::add_two(2));
}
```

Each file in the tests directory is a separate crate, so we need to bring our library into each test crate’s scope. For 
that reason we add use adder at the top of the code, which we didn’t need in the unit tests.

We don’t need to annotate any code in tests/integration_test.rs with #[cfg(test)]. Cargo treats the tests directory 
specially and compiles files in this directory only when we run cargo test. Run cargo test now:

```bash
cargo test
   Compiling adder v0.1.0 (file:///projects/adder)
    Finished test [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 1.31s
     Running unittests src/lib.rs (target/debug/deps/adder-1082c4b063a8fbe6)

running 1 test
test tests::internal ... ok

test result: ok. 1 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 0.00s

     Running tests/integration_test.rs (target/debug/deps/integration_test-1082c4b063a8fbe6)

running 1 test
test it_adds_two ... ok

test result: ok. 1 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 0.00s

   Doc-tests adder

running 0 tests

test result: ok. 0 passed; 0 failed; 0 ignored; 0 measured; 0 filtered out; finished in 0.00s
```

The three sections of output include the unit tests, the integration test, and the doc tests. Note that if any test in a 
section fails, the following sections will not be run. For example, if a unit test fails, there won’t be any output for 
integration and doc tests because those tests will only be run if all unit tests are passing.

The first section for the unit tests is the same as we’ve been seeing: one line for each unit test (one named internal 
that we added in Listing 11-12) and then a summary line for the unit tests.

The integration tests section starts with the line Running tests/integration_test.rs. Next, there is a line for each 
test function in that integration test and a summary line for the results of the integration test just before the 
Doc-tests adder section starts.

Each integration test file has its own section, so if we add more files in the tests directory, there will be more 
integration test sections.

We can still run a particular integration test function by specifying the test function’s name as an argument to cargo 
test. To run all the tests in a particular integration test file, use the --test argument of cargo test followed by the 
name of the file:

